A network is a linkage system that allows computers and other hardware to communicate.
A Docker network is the same thing. It is a linkage system that allows docker containers
to communicate with each other on the same docker host or with containers, computers
and hardware outside of the containers host, including containers running on other
docker hosts.

The Docker network is based on a standard, created by Docker called the
Container Network Model (CNM). There is a competing network standard created by
CoreOS called Container Network Interface (CNI). CNI has been adopted by several
projects including kubernetes.

The CNM has been implemented by the libnetwork project which is written in GO. This
is made up of three constructs: the sandbox, the endpoint and network. The sandbox
is a network namespace. Each container has its own sandbox. It holds the configuration
of the containers network stack. This includes its routing tables, interfaces,
and DNS settings for IP and MAC addresses. The sandbox also contains the network
endpoints for the container. The endpoints are what join a sandbox to networks.
Endpoints are essentially network interfaces. A network is a collection of connected
endpoints. Every network has a name, an address space, an ID, and a network type.

libnetwork is a pluggable architecture that allows network drivers to implement
the specific components mentioned above. Each network type has its own network driver.
Default drivers include bridge and overlay as well as none, host and MACVLAN.
Remote drivers include Calico, Contiv and Weave.

# docker network
docker network connect
docker network create
docker network disconnect
docker network inspect
docker network ls
docker network rm
docker network prune

- host: leverages the networking stack of the Docker host, essentially bypassing
  the networking of Docker. Each port can only be used by a single container.
  Each docker host can only have 1 network using the host driver.

  --network host

- null/none: creates a network that when a container is connected to it provides
  a full network stack but does not configure any interfaces within the container.
  This renders the container completely isolated.

  --network none

- bridge: Any container attached to the same bridge network are able to communicate
  with one another. A docker host can have more than one bridge network. Containers
  cannot communicate with other containers on another bridge network.

  --network bridge

- overlay: Allows you to create networks that span docker hosts. These are layer
  2 networks.

- MACVLAN: Creates networks that allows each container to have their own IP
  and MAC addresses and to be attached to a non-docker network.

docker network create [OPTIONS] <network>
docker network create -d overlay defaults-over

docker network create -d overlay \
--subnet=172.30.0.0/24 \
--ip-range=172.30.0.0/28 \
--gateway=172.30.0.254 \
specifics-over

docker network inspect specifics-over --format '{{json .IPAM.Config}}' | jq  
