IPS (Internet Protocol Suite) is a conceptual model of how network
protocols send network traffic over the internet that breaks down
network communication into four layers. The four layers form a protocol
stack.

Data Encapsulation:

Each layer in the IPS is built on the one below, and each layer is able
to encapsulate the data from the layer above so it can move between
the layers. Data transmitted by each layer is called a protocol data
unit (PDU).

Headers, Footers, and Addresses:

The PDU in each layer contains the payload data that is being transmitted.
It's common to prefix 'header' - which contains information required
for the payload data to be transmitted, such as the address of the source
and destination nodes on the network - to the payload data. Sometimes a
PDU also has a footer that is suffixed to the payload data and contains
values needed to ensure correct transmission, such as error-checking
information.

Layers:

- Link layer (layer 1)
  This layer is the lowest level and describes the physical mechanisms
  used to transfer information between nodes on a local network.
  Well-known examples include Ethernet (both wired and wireless) and
  Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP).

- Internet layer (layer 2)
  This layer provides the mechanisms for addressing network nodes.
  Unlike in layer 1, the nodes don't have to be located on the local
  network. This level contains the IP; on modern networks, the actual
  protocol used could be either version 4 (IPv4) or version 6 (IPv6).

- Transport layer (layer 3)
  This layer is responsible for connections between clients and servers,
  sometimes ensuring the correct order of packets and providing service
  multiplexing. Service multiplexing allows a single node to support
  multiple different services by assigning a different number for each
  service; this number is called a port. TCP and UDP operate on this
  layer.

- Application layer (layer 4)
  This layer contains network protocols, such as HTTP, which transfers
  web page contents; SMPT, which transfers email; and the DNS protocol,
  which converts a name to an address of a node on the network.
