Binary Protocol Structures:

These work at the binary level; the smallest unit of data is a single binary
digit. Alternatively octes (8-bytes) are the de-facto standard.

Unicode encodings:

- UCS-2/UTF-16
  This is the native format on modern Microsoft Windows platforms, as well as
  within Java and .NET virtual machines when they are running code. It encodes
  points in sequences of 16-bit integers and has little and big endian variants.

- UCS-4/UTF-32
  This is a common format used in Unix application because it's the default wide
  character format in C/C++ compilers. It encodes code points in sequence of
  32-bit integers and has different endian variants.

- UTF-8
  This is probably the most common format on Unix. It is also the default input
  and output format for varying platforms and technologies, such as XML. Rather
  than having a fixed integer size for code points, it encodes them using a
  simple variable length.

Multiplexing:

Multiplexing allows multiple connections to share the same underlining network
connection. Multiplexing defines an internal channel mechanism that allows a
single connection to host multiple types of traffic by fragmenting large
transmissions into smaller chunks. Multiplexing then combines these chunks into
a single connection. When analyzing a protocol you may need to demultiplex these
channels to get the original data back out.

Network Address Information:

With TCP or UDP protocols, the most common binary representation is the IP
address as either a 4- or 16-octet value (IPv4 or IPv6) along with a 2-octet
port. These are typically stored as big endian integer values.

Structured Binary Formats:

Abstract Syntax Notation (ASN.1) is the basis for protocols such as the SNMP and
it is the encoding mechanism for all manner of cryptographic values, such as
X.509 certificates. ASN.1 is standardized by the ISO, IEC, and ITU in the X.680
series. DER is designed to represent ASN.1 structures in a way that can't be
misinterpreted, the DER representation is a good example of the TLV protocol.

MINE (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions):

The specification in RFCs 2045, 2046 and 2047 along with others defines a way of
encoding multiple discrete attachments in a single MIME-encoded message.

MIME messages separate the body parts by defining a common separator line
prefixed with two dashes. The message is terminated with a suffix of --.

One of the most common uses of MIME is for Content-Type values, which are usually
referred to as MIME types.
